big developments with the world's most
important commodity right here in this
video I'm going to explain everything
you need to know of course we've got the
situation that's going on right now
escalating the price of oil causing
concern and for good reason so I'm going
to talk about what's happening
fundamentally you're going to see the
United States and their production what
about Saudi Arabia and theirs oil is all
over the place it is foundational inside
our everyday lives is that changing well
we're going to discuss today you came
here for the truth so let me unveil that
for you in today's video I want to break
down oil I want to look at other energy
and I want to make it real simple stick
with me we're going to get into this
right here and now we have it us oil
exports hit a record in the first half
and then in contrast to that Saudi
Arabia's crude oil export slump to a
28th month 28 month low in August very
different right where we have surging
oil from the United States and a cutback
coming from Saudi Arabia now Saudi
Arabia has made it very clear we are
going to cut our production at least
through 2024 we'll see what happens
things are changing very rapidly in this
area but the point is very clear the
United States I believe they're bringing
a lot of that energy online much of that
is going to Europe right now who needs
it
because they have severed their lines in
between Russia and them and of course
winter is coming so they need this it's
very important right here and now and
they have set up trade with Qatar
they've said we are going to Qatar to
get our natural gas there's just one
problem have you heard it's not going to
be up and running until 2026 so we've
got years in this in this period of time
that we need to realize there's a
shortfall right now and the US has been
the number one beneficiary in this
circumstance all right the situation
between uh you know Europe and Russia us
is winning so with Saudi Arabia as it
relates to oil they can do anything with
the price of oil they could make it go
up and down they could make it spin and
they could do all kinds of somersaults
if they want but right now they're
deciding to cut and as a result oil
prices have remained high on top of that
you've got what the situation that's
been going on that's been escalating
there are so many different things and
so let's break it down even further suas
Canal to raise Transit fees by
15% from January so here it is again
something on top of all of this that
could increase the price of oil yet
again and so all of that think about
this um when you see
overwhelmingly a lot of traffic coming
through the Suz Canal as we saw if you
remember that one vessel that was oddly
like sideways blocking the whole thing
um we know that it does have a dramatic
impact because if you're going to go all
the way around Africa it's going to
number one take a long time some of
these vessels do not make it back and um
you know when you add that you're adding
costs to the whole circumstance so the
whole thing is thrown off and we have a
just in time type of inventory if you've
ever heard of this the way it works is
oh I can just leave my production I can
leave my inventory off in a different
country because I don't have to pay
expensive warehousing costs here right
that sounds good until you get into 2020
and everything is disrupted and they
realize maybe that's not such a good
idea and while we've heard many times oh
we're going to change that that
companies get complacent and uh the
costs are extremely high to do so and
ultimately profit first that's what
corporations do and so we see this right
now potentially deep deeply affecting
the price of oil when we have you know
any form of Taxation blockades or
disruptions I thought this was
interesting and this is really what I
wanted to get to for this video
investment requirements for the overall
oil sector between 2022 and 20
2045 are estimated at a cumulative 14
trillion in 2023 us looking at that $4
trillion do you think that the
governments are going to be putting
let's say the governments of the West
are going to be putting trillions of
dollars over the next few years into oil
or are they going to put it in windmills
and I've heard heard from many people
tell me before that a lot of the
windmills aren't exactly operational
however do you think that the
governments are going to invest more or
the corporations are going to invest
more
into you know the oil or are the
existing companies going to just reap
the rewards of not enough investment
because they get to see the prices rise
higher and higher I think that could be
the case I'd like to know what you think
do you see more investment in oil coming
through do you think that these
companies will expand knowing that the
green energy and you know eco-friendly
all of that is getting subsidized when
you go to purchase something it has a
label it's eco-friendly it's green and
so on and suddenly things are getting
pushed to the side we see that a lot now
where oh it has you know it's econscious
so that's going to come in front of you
when you're buying a product and all the
other things which might be
significantly cheaper are going to be
way at the back we've seen this with
Amazon doing it and of course it's
happening in physical retail as well a
lot is changing right now and I think
people the whole point I'm going to make
here is that we are going to see an
inflationary Spike and sticky inflation
meaning it's going to stay around for
the foreseeable future simply for this
one reason alone there there's million
printing the money in all kinds but just
for this one reason we could see it
become real sticky China saved 10
billion dollars by buying cheap oil from
sanctioned exporters so of course Russia
gets the benefit in this circumstance
right here as well as Venezuela and Iran
China is saying we'll take it no worries
and so this happens right now as you see
these two sides clearly clearly forming
where the Arab world is siding with
China China aiding with the Arab world
and uh we also see that including other
countries with the bricks this case here
and also Venezuela too City's Mega
Metals trade shows Global markets
turning to a glut city has bought up
aluminum zinc in metal financing play
isn't that interesting because the city
has now become one of the biggest
players in the metal markets you see how
they manipulate these prices here you
see how they can drive that up they
could take all the inventory and
suddenly there's none left the price
spikes really high they could dump it
back on the market price crashes down
they could profit from that too this is
important because with any commodity
this happens regularly regularly look at
gold and silver they do this all the
time but KN that happens with basically
anything they could drive the price up
they could smash it down and they do it
and sometimes they get caught they get
in trouble they get a little slap on the
wrist but know that this is happening
and whenever we have an activity
something that's going on out there
there is a yes there's like the real
fundamentals but then on top of that
there's speculators and if it's really
exciting or really interesting you get a
lot of speculators and that could send
the price Way Beyond where it should be
up or down keep that in mind that's my
message to you okay look at Copper's
price curve hasn't looked like this in
decades and so we're seeing this why is
copper important well one of those
reasons is electric vehicles and copper
is certainly needed there they're B need
to buy more of it and we need to see
more coming online more mining of it or
the price can go higher and higher and
that means the input cost of these
electric vehicles uh would go higher or
at least be sustained where they are not
come down in price as well as anything
else building materials and so on uh the
problem here that they're saying hey if
China's not buying real estate they
don't need as much copper that's what
they're suggesting and of course that is
true just wanted to show you one example
of a car company um I mean my goodness
is it a company if it loses this much
money rivan you look at one company that
just burns money in fact over three I
think it was
$338,000 for every vehicle they lose
$338,000 for every vehicle that they
produce it's
ridiculous but uh that's the way it goes
so you know all these all these
companies are in the same circumstance
they're just hoping that money comes
through but you know here we go and with
all of this as we alluded to a few
moments ago with the Investments where's
the money going follow the money right
well look at this Stockholm bans Diesel
and petrol cars in city center from 2025
so they're saying if you are in the city
center you are not going to be able to
use a diesel or petrol car or you're
going to have to pay a tax and so who
does this really hurt you tell me well I
got an idea it's a way that they can
restrict your movement and they seem to
be doing this if you look at it they're
restricting people we've talked about
that a long time ago uh that they would
do this so the people are going to have
to now inside the city center take
public transit and you might say well
that's good and so on but should you be
forced to if somebody's got wealth they
don't care oh you got to pay a toll okay
here you go no problem oh it's 20 bucks
a day all right no problem but does
somebody at you know the bottom level of
income you know middle class and Below
they don't want to pay 20 bucks a day
they don't want to pay the fee they're
already sinking from inflation and here
you go putting another tax on top this
is not the way to do it but they're
going to do it anyway okay and so you
could disagree with me all you
want I'm I'm interested to hear what you
think what about this taxing
cheeseburgers could help save the
climate doesn't matter what side you're
on in terms of the consumption of this
stuff but when was the last time I had a
cheeseburger
a cheeser I can't remember um I ate
McDonald's I think in
U 20 11 maybe anyway um looking at this
the point is this doesn't fix the
problem and somebody's going to benefit
and it's not going to be you when we
look at different forms of energy and
how this is all going to play out here
over these next few years understand you
got to follow the money small nuclear
rea factors the answer to Big Tech
energy crisis Microsoft hints at its
nuclear Plans by posting a job for a
principal program managed nuclear
technology to explore uh and integrating
smrs into its operations and they get
into others okay interesting so
interesting what's happening here I
don't know where it will all end up but
know that there are things that are
changing today I'm hoping to see
positive developments but in general the
way we're moving is that prices will be
higher for you not just on your energy
but everything and so plan
accordingly a new Chile Argentina is at
the epicenter of a new white gold rush
it's talking about lithium of course
again lithium for the batteries they're
in everything they're all over the place
uh you know wherever you go everything
seems to have a chip today so it's got a
battery and so on and it needs that
lithium and there are many places where
they're finding this now um it's not
just you know in in one spot so that's
beneficial in that respect um in terms
of getting it out of the ground I don't
think it's necessarily the easiest thing
but the point is that you've got to be
aware of the trends and simply prepare
accordingly so what I want to show you
really quickly is this and that is all
about Seeking Alpha if you want to know
when something moves and there's a trend
when oil is up when you know you see
what's happening in the markets you got
to be on top of this if you want to
invest okay before you do any investing
you don't just look at what a YouTuber
did oh he he's know he knows what he's
doing I'll buy that no you've got to do
your own due diligence and Seeking Alpha
offers you a way to do that and so I
managed to get this free trial from them
and it's a 7-Day free trial and $50 off
if if you're going to go through with it
which my understanding is that this
could end at any moment I don't know if
they're going to start it up again maybe
Black Friday but they just told me the
affiliate manager just told me uh you
know you can have this uh for your uh
subscribers so I put it here click the
link in the description and uh you'll be
brought over there and you see my little
page on my website you can get that you
this is the kind of thing that you get
on the inside of it this is what it
looks like when you're in Seeking Alpha
it just talks about particular companies
you may not have heard of some of course
you have and then it just breaks it down
with stock level analysis that I think
will be very beneficial uh to the people
looking to
invest okay and the comment of the day
heg thank you for your comment as always
love the comments of the day I don't
want to highlight that because I realize
that most YouTubers don't even look at
their comment section so uh it's
important to me all right silvergate
signature and and Silicon Valley Bank
were the main ones banks that failed of
course there are a bunch of other
Regional banks that are still vulnerable
the banking crisis isn't over yet folks
that is absolutely true and what is the
big thing what is the central theme
around that of course it's interest
rates so we watch that we monitor that
and we could see what's going to happen
with the banks and you could do that
right here at this channel I'll bring
you all the details I've been doing that
for well over a decade now and um
certainly I put my money where my mouth
is I wrote it in a book my first book
back in January 2012 all published I
said look when interest rates go up
meaningfully we are going to have some
issues broke that down everyone that's
read my book knows what I'm talking
about I want to thank you for being here
today you got to come in for tomorrow
we've got some big stuff prepared I want
to see you then all right take care